"‘As I am, so are they; as they are, so am I.’ Comparing others with oneself, do not kill nor cause others to kill." -- The Buddha
"A disciplined mind brings happiness." -- The Buddha
"A noble one produces an abundance of merit by having a compassionate mind towards all living beings." -- The Buddha
"A wise person should be urgently moved on occasions that make for urgency." -- The Buddha
"All experiences are preceded by mind, having mind as their master, created by mind." -- The Buddha
"Ardently do today what must be done. Who knows? Tomorrow, death comes." -- The Buddha
"Conquer anger with non-anger. Conquer badness with goodness. Conquer meanness with generosity. Conquer dishonesty with truth." -- The Buddha
"Delight in heedfulness! Guard well your thoughts!" -- The Buddha
"Give, even if you only have a little." -- The Buddha
"I do not dispute with the world; rather it is the world that disputes with me." -- The Buddha
"If with a pure mind a person speaks or acts, happiness follows them like a never-departing shadow." -- The Buddha
"In whom there is no sympathy for living beings: know him as an outcast." -- The Buddha
"It is in the nature of things that joy arises in a person free from remorse." -- The Buddha
"Just as a mother would protect her only child with her life, even so let one cultivate a boundless love towards all beings." -- The Buddha
"Meditate … do not delay, lest you later regret it." -- The Buddha
"One should train in deeds of merit—generosity, a balanced life, developing a loving mind—that yield long-lasting happiness." -- The Buddha
"Purity and impurity depend on oneself; no one can purify another." -- The Buddha
"Radiate boundless love towards the entire world…" -- The Buddha
"See them, floundering in their sense of mine, like fish in the puddles of a dried-up stream — and, seeing this, live with no mine, not forming attachment for states of becoming." -- The Buddha
"Should a seeker not find a companion who is better or equal, let them resolutely pursue a solitary course." -- The Buddha
"Should you find a wise critic to point out your faults, follow him as you would a guide to hidden treasure." -- The Buddha
"Speak only endearing speech, speech that is welcomed. Speech, when it brings no evil to others, is a pleasant thing." -- The Buddha
"The one in whom no longer exist the craving and thirst that perpetuate becoming; how could you track that Awakened one, trackless, and of limitless range." -- The Buddha
"There is no fear for one whose mind is not filled with desires." -- The Buddha
"To support mother and father, to cherish partner and children, and to be engaged in peaceful occupation — this is the greatest blessing." -- The Buddha
"Understanding is the heartwood of well-spoken words." -- The Buddha
"Whatever has the nature of arising has the nature of ceasing." -- The Buddha
"Whatever is not yours: let go of it. Your letting go of it will be for your long-term happiness & benefit." -- The Buddha
"Whatever precious jewel there is in the heavenly worlds, there is nothing comparable to one who is Awakened." -- The Buddha
"Better than a thousand useless words is one useful word, upon hearing which one attains peace." -- The Buddha
"It’s a good thing to be satisfied with what one has." -- The Buddha
"Let none find fault with others; let none see the omissions and commissions of others. But let one see one’s own acts, done and undone." -- The Buddha
"Should someone do good, let them do it again and again. They should develop this habit, for the accumulation of goodness brings joy." -- The Buddha
"The Enlightened One is deep, boundless, hard to fathom, like the ocean." -- The Buddha
"The thing that is disliked by me is also disliked by others. Since I dislike this thing, how can I inflict it on someone else?" -- The Buddha
"‘All conditioned things are impermanent’ — when one sees this with wisdom, one turns away from suffering." -- The Buddha
"‘As I am, so are these. As are these, so am I.’ Drawing the parallel to yourself, neither kill nor get others to kill." -- The Buddha
"A mind unruffled by the vagaries of fortune, from sorrow freed, from defilements cleansed, from fear liberated — this is the greatest blessing." -- The Buddha
"All tremble at violence; all fear death. Putting oneself in the place of another, one should not kill nor cause another to kill." -- The Buddha
"As a water bead on a lotus leaf, as water on a red lily, does not adhere, so the sage does not adhere to the seen, the heard, or the sensed." -- The Buddha
"As an elephant in the battlefield withstands arrows shot from bows all around, even so shall I endure abuse." -- The Buddha
"Better it is to live one day seeing the rise and fall of things than to live a hundred years without ever seeing the rise and fall of things." -- The Buddha
"Both formerly and now, it is only suffering that I describe, and the cessation of suffering." -- The Buddha
"Ceasing to do evil, Cultivating the good, Purifying the heart: This is the teaching of the Buddhas." -- The Buddha
"Drop by drop is the water pot filled. Likewise, the wise man, gathering it little by little, fills himself with good." -- The Buddha
"Hatred is never appeased by hatred in this world. By non-hatred alone is hatred appeased. This is a law eternal." -- The Buddha
"Having gone on his almsround, the sage should then go to the forest, standing or taking a seat at the foot of a tree. The enlightened one, intent on jhana, should find delight in the forest, should practice jhana at the foot of a tree, attaining his own satisfaction." -- The Buddha
"He who can curb his wrath as soon as it arises, as a timely antidote will check snake’s venom that so quickly spreads, — such a monk gives up the here and the beyond, just as a serpent sheds its worn-out skin." -- The Buddha
"I will not look at another’s bowl intent on finding fault: a training to be observed." -- The Buddha
"If a man going down into a river, swollen and swiftly flowing, is carried away by the current — how can he help others across?" -- The Buddha
"If they are neither traceable in the Discourses nor verifiable by the Discipline, one must conclude thus: ‘Certainly, this is not the Blessed One’s utterance’“ The Buddha" -- The Buddha
"Irrigators channel waters; fletchers straighten arrows; carpenters bend wood; the wise master themselves." -- The Buddha
"Just as a solid rock is not shaken by the storm, even so the wise are not affected by praise or blame." -- The Buddha
"Just as the great ocean has one taste, the taste of salt, so also this teaching and discipline has one taste, the taste of liberation." -- The Buddha
"Know from the rivers in clefts and in crevices: those in small channels flow noisily, the great flow silent. Whatever’s not full makes noise. Whatever is full is quiet." -- The Buddha
"Let all-embracing thoughts for all beings be yours." -- The Buddha
"Let none find fault with others; let none see the omissions and commissions of others. But let one see one’s own acts, done and undone." -- The Buddha
"May all beings have happy minds." -- The Buddha
"One is not called noble who harms living beings. By not harming living beings one is called noble." -- The Buddha
"Over there are the roots of trees; over there, empty dwellings. Practice meditation, monks. Don’t be heedless." -- The Buddha
"Radiate boundless love towards the entire world — above, below, and across — unhindered, without ill will, without enmity." -- The Buddha
"Resolutely train yourself to attain peace." -- The Buddha
"Should a person do good, let him do it again and again. Let him find pleasure therein, for blissful is the accumulation of good." -- The Buddha
"Some do not understand that we must die, But those who do realize this settle their quarrels." -- The Buddha
"The calmed say that what is well-spoken is best; second, that one should say what is right, not unrighteous; third, what’s pleasing, not displeasing; fourth, what is true, not false." -- The Buddha
"The root of suffering is attachment." -- The Buddha
"The world is afflicted by death and decay. But the wise do not grieve, having realized the nature of the world." -- The Buddha
"They blame those who remain silent, they blame those who speak much, they blame those who speak in moderation. There is none in the world who is not blamed." -- The Buddha
"Those who cling to perceptions and views wander the world offending people." -- The Buddha
"To support mother and father, to cherish wife and children, and to be engaged in peaceful occupation — this is the greatest blessing." -- The Buddha
"We will develop and cultivate the liberation of mind by lovingkindness, make it our vehicle, make it our basis, stabilize it, exercise ourselves in it, and fully perfect it." -- The Buddha
"When watching after yourself, you watch after others. When watching after others, you watch after yourself." -- The Buddha
"Whoever doesn’t flare up at someone who’s angry wins a battle hard to win." -- The Buddha
"You yourself must strive. The Buddhas only point the way." -- The Buddha
